This research project intend to explore three main aspects: The impact of data collection on pre-processing methodologies, the effectiveness of distinct pre-processing strategies for Alzheimer ́s disease classification, and the challenges associated with implementing FreeSurfer ́s ”recon-all” module in healthcare applications. Data collec- tion significantly influences pre-processing by enabling the development of standard- ised images, essential for consistent analysis. We developed and tested three different pre-processing strategies through experiments using a custom EfficientNetV2S model. The research demonstrates that increased complexity in pre-processing steps correlates with enhanced classification precision, as evidenced by confusion matrix’s. However, practical challenges such as extensive processing times and FreeSurfer ́s closed code environment, limit its applicability in fast-paced healthcare settings. The hypothesis asserts that skull-stripped MRI sequences processed through the FreeSurfer applica- tion offer a more precise method for detecting Alzheimer ́s disease compared to the other proposed strategies. The research substantiates this hypothesis, showing that skull-stripping yields better accuracy. Although differences between methods are min- imal with current dataset, and model set-up. Expanding the dataset and improving model robustness could reveal more significant distinctions, underscoring the poten- sial advantages of skull-stripping techniques for Alzheimer ́s detection.
